she's like what's going brand bushes hey
everyone its 24th of october here in
sydney australia
we've got Britain's Strongest Man here
competing in less than two weeks time
now about a week and a half at big dogs
Australia which is the world's strongest
powerlifting competition and today is
benchpress day but it's not just any
benchpress days his last heavy session
last heavy benchpress session before he
competes next Saturday so we're not
going to promise any numbers today
Graham unless you want to but how're you
feeling I feel good if they can finally
go over Magette like a little bit how
long have you been here for now a week
yet six days six days okay so that's a
good enough time to catch up on some
good sleep yes you're well-fed you're
looking you're looking very muscular
I feel big about this because I've
always been are just very well fed very
well hydrated
so we're ready to do something big today
yeah so we've given you guys a little
bit about we're going to give you guys a
little bit of warm-up show us a
procedure that we take for our warmups
but if you want a little bit more
content on our exercise technique we
just posted a big benchpress session
which was his first bit first session
here it wasn't a heavy benchpress
session for him he got 20 220 kilograms
for 5 reps like it was an empty bar but
in that benchpress video you guys got a
great insight as to how we pretty much
structure our entire program so if you
want more information go back on that
but right now we're going to turn our
music up which YouTube won't let us play
on here so there's not much talk but
we've got a lot of focus now we've got a
big session ahead of us ok let's do it
[Applause]
[Music]
then I hang up the top let's hang it
hanging hanging there you go and then
bring it to the back down people are
gonna be back like you doing with bench
press make you definitely go down look
this way full stretch so I don't need it
to be a lot of people think of like
push-pull ratio one to one as and I used
to the same way when I do a horizontal
push like a bench press I need to pair
that with a horizontal pull so a lot of
people who go and do a lat pulldown and
ice I like to pair the lat pulldown with
the bench press and they think that I'm
doing it because I want to have him
mimic the exact opposite movement of the
bench press so they lean back which
isn't a bad exercise so you can do that
as well is a good lean back but I like
to think of pairing a horizontal push
like a bench press with a vertical fault
because one of the most important
movements for the shoulder blades in a
bench press isn't retraction it's
actually depression and the best way to
mimic the depression movement is
actually a vertical pull so that's why I
actually like to pair a horizontal push
in a bench press with the vertical
pulling a lat pulldown so that we can
focus on depression of the scapula of
course for traction and depression but
depression of the scapula is number one
so lap pull down isn't a horizontal call
it's a vertical force pull stretch
shoulder blades back and down
so staff right that's good that's
perfect pull stretch shoulders back and
down have a look at how much weights on
the bar he could probably do the whole
stack but that's not the point we're
just warming up we're just spending on
his lats we're just turning on the
movement we want to imitate the bench
press stimulate not an Iowa
these are the opposing muscle groups for
his benchpress we warm up the opposing
muscle groups before we even start
loading weight on the bar these are the
external rotators infraspinatus and
teres minor they sit on the scapula here
and the posterior fibers of the deltoid
that's the external rotators of the
shoulder joint you're technically not
internally rotating with the bench press
but the pecs and lats are huge internal
rotators of the shoulder joint
so have a look at his elbow position
it's kind of irrelevant so long as it
kind of stays roughly where it is and
this phone here rotates on axis okay so
the muscles that are controlling that
are the external rotators of the
shoulder joint are the ones that I just
mentioned infraspinatus teres minor and
posterior fibers of the deltoid a lot of
people misinterpret this exercise and
they think that for it to be working
effectively he needs to have that elbow
glued to the side of his body have you
seen the size of Graham that's 160 kilo
human same height as me which is we'll
call it six-foot in shoes but that's a
big dude and he can't physically see his
elbows on his midsection okay so they're
naturally going to be stuck out like
this okay it doesn't really matter you
can train your external rotators with
your elbow at 90 degrees to your torso
so long as this bone here is stationary
and we're rotating it on access okay but
right here
it's on an angle that's fine and we're
rotating it on axis okay so back to the
lat pulldown again
cool
one also damaged
don't straighten that drive give up and
all time that's it
so we've done pretty much two sets on
each pulling two external rotation
before we go to a bench press this isn't
like a compulsory it's just something I
like to do we'll go and do some more
because I know something that Graham
needs is more range of motion in his
shoulder joint so we did this is a
warm-up response session the other day
but I'm going to include it as all month
for his bench press is just some sit on
their shoulders
which you can see is not very mobile
he's very tired Aniyah shoulders but
what he's trying to do is let the weight
of the dumbbells sink him into a full
stretch position some things that I also
like to cue is to to even pull it down
like he's doing a lat pull down pull it
down pull it down pull it down so this
is our mobility work shoulder joint
likes the most in this full stretch
position okay which is why we use the
cue tucking the elbows in a benchpress
because we're after that externally
rotated position so that all the right
muscles in our and the tendons in our
shoulder joint to move look at look at
the sweat on this guy
and we haven't even started yet I'd
blame the humidity outside place it's
just me he's used to the UK temperatures
a little bit cooler than here I'm I
sweat 5% less immediately I'm like it
should do one more set yeah keep it a
bit closer to your body safe
stretch pull it down
good it's a lot of mess here
that's a very handy muscles that were
going to be needing to press what we
want to press today
[Music]
coming the better you may
is calling
[Music]
you better prepare for thunder
[Applause]
the freedom in my soul ain't afraid to
walk on coals hear the thunder when I
step you'll know where to place your bed
[Music]
ain't gonna tell no lies ain't gonna
bother
can't stop me
I mean
monster
I'm trying to be your hero it's the only
way that I know this battle you never
penis
here in my
I can stop me
I mean
stop me
[__] you are building all right that was
in the benchpress session I'm very happy
with that I just had a look at grain
walking towards me and he's just grown
twice his size which is pretty
impressive for me it's not really that
important it's not an aesthetics show
he's not judged on his appearance but
damn he looks like he looks like he can
win some proper politic shows so don't
just give us a rundown in that fashion
how did you go did a 280 single which is
a PB 7 a half-kilo PV and then the 240
but down set for 5 I'm a previous best
was 3 so I'll definitely said that the
weights are white here in Australia and
I'm liking it the gravity is upside down
now right
must be a mystic Artes rating me well
I'm happy about well done it's not our
last benchpress session but it's our
last heavy bench procession all about
having works done where how many days
out is that nine down hours now we will
still have another light squad like then
like benchpress session just to build
movements but make the load off now it's
time to rest and come back even stronger
I'm ready let's just tell them again
where can they find you you're on social
media Instagram Instagram is an Eng one
that I use green pics UK I'm sure
then I'll put it on the bottom of the
youtube link for you guys that's you
give him a follow this is the future of
this sport Twitter the strongest man I'm
talking him out of that sport it's just
gonna dominate powerlifting instead he's
got a gift so why not go for it anyway
guys I hope you enjoyed that
stay tuned for 9 days time big dogs